Grace, mercy, and peace be unto you from our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
And again, a portion of the Old Testament reading from Isaiah chapter two.
In the last days, the mountain of the Lord's temple will be established as the highest of the mountains.
It will be exalted above the hills, and all nations will stream to it.
The Harry Nation will join me with the word of prayer.
What God on this day, as we enter into this new season,
We enter into the season of advent, of waiting, and longing, and looking for the coming of the Savior.
Lord, let our prayer be one that echoes your promises given in Scripture, the promises of a new way of living, of a new life, all the promises that come with the Savior as Jesus comes into this world, bringing His own justice, bringing the love of the Father, and bringing forgiveness.
Lord, let us put our hope
on these promises once again this season as we look to the coming of the Savior and as we worship Him, we pray in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Irrigation may be seated.
I hope you all had a very nice Thanksgiving weekend.
Sure there was plenty of food on the table and hopefully family to gather around and time together.
I was told though that I am not allowed to talk about a football game that took place on Friday evening.
So I won't say anything about that.
Thinking about meals like that though, Thanksgiving meals are Christmas meals, the holiday meals that we gather around for during this time of the year.
I've always thought these meals are an opportunity to look into some of the great promises that we hold on to.
Imagine a family gathered together around the table.
And especially for a holiday like Thanksgiving, we have relative abundance that we should not forget in our country and in our lives.
There's food.
So often on our tables, like for these holiday meals, there's food and probably more than enough to go around.
There's gathering of the people, the family.
And it's almost like for a few minutes we can step away from some of the problems in the world and gather together and be together and just have conversation and hopefully everybody behaves themselves.
It's a nice time, a good time to be together and to for a few minutes.
Again, maybe forget about to walk away from to be separated from some of the normal worries and anxieties of the world around us.
So there's food.
There's community, family, gathering together of people, and there's a sense of home.
Being in a place that is safe and secure, at least for a little while, a sense of being just together, home, being the place where we belong, the place where we are with others, who we love and who love us, where we are known, and where there's security, and each of these things.
I think it's no mistake, no accident that
It's some of our most cherished times, some of our favorite memories are those moments of being in that place, of being gathered together, of sharing in times like that, of the stories and conversations that take place.
There's something in there that's deep and that we're made for, I think.
And again, it's no accident because this is actually the picture we get at the end of the Bible of what God has in mind for His people.
The stories from Revelation have the nations gathered together there around the feast that God Himself provides of good food, of choice wine, of the nations of the world, of the tribes, of all the peoples gathered together.
And there is plenty.
And there is community that is complete and full and there is
a sense of being home.
There's something we long for, and as we go through this season, as we go through the holidays, it should be a reminder for us of that deeper thing, that greater thing that we are made for, that there is something there that is very real, that we look to, that we hope for, that we long for, and that's what the promise of this season
As we enter now into Advent, as we look towards Christmas, that's what the promise of this season is, is that there is a Savior coming into the world that will provide these good gifts for His people, for a world that is broken, that is tumultuous, that is weary, for people that are calling out, that are looking for a source of salvation, for hope, and something that is lasting.
God's promises come in.
God's Son comes into the world to be the promised one for His people.
Isaiah chapter two foreshadows these things.
Here at the very beginning of the book of Isaiah, Isaiah's got a vision of those final days of the last day of what this might look like in Isaiah's vision and his eyes and his seeing of it.
And he says, come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the temple of the God of Jacob.
He will teach us his ways so that we may walk in his paths, and the law will go out from Zion, the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
He will judge between nations, settle disputes for many peoples, and they will beat their swords and the plowshares and their spears and the pruning hooks.
Nation will not take up sword against nation, nor will they train for war anymore.
Isaiah's got a picture and a vision of the mountain of the Lord, of the nations being gathered
together there around the mountain of the Lord.
And what actually begins to happen as he sees it, as the nations are there, these things are so much different than they are in this life.
And in this world, no longer do we go to earthly judges or arbiters or kings in order to get disputes settled.
Now God settles the disputes for the peoples.
He makes things right for them with his own righteousness.
And now no longer is there training for war.
The spears are set aside.
The weapons are laid down.
There's no longer any desire for those things because God has now made peace among the nations and peace for the peoples.
This is the world that we long for.
I would argue it's the world that we are made for, but we can see only now from a distance and we cannot get it yet.
And Isaiah here is seeing it from a distance.
Notably, Isaiah is seeing it from far off.
Chapter one of Isaiah is very different than chapter two.
Chapter two of Isaiah is hopeful he has this vision of this mountain of the Lord where the nations are streaming up and joining together with their God and Creator.
But Isaiah chapter one is about the woes of a weary world.
There, Isaiah says, hero heavens and give ear, oh earth, for the Lord has spoken.
Children that I have reared and brought up, they are rebelling against me.
The ox knows its owner and the donkey, it's master's crib, but Israel does not know my people.
They do not understand.
Isaiah is talking about the plight of the people of Israel, how they have wandered away from God.
The result of that is going to be bloodshed.
The result of that is going to be foreign armies coming in.
The result of that eventually is going to be that they're taking captive in a foreign land once again all over again for the people of Israel.
They have wandered away from the Lord their God.
They have chosen other gods.
They have worshiped idols.
They are chasing after worldly things, wealth and power and all of those old idols that we still chase after today.
So Isaiah chapter one is very honest.
It's a look at the world, a weary world, and it's not that far off for us either.
We easily can see it as well, reminded of this, even though maybe on Thursday, as we celebrated Thanksgiving, we got to separate just a little bit from the world than just the day before.
I'm sure you saw the news of two National Guardsmen being shot in Washington, D.C., another one of these
incidents that makes no sense to us.
Another violent action that seems so senseless in this world, something that we mourn.
Also, we know there's warfare happening other parts of the world, even as Russia and Ukraine are discussing peace, yet oil tankers are being sunk and aerosols are ongoing.
It's continuing.
We escape from it for a few minutes, but once we look back, once we turn our eyes, like from Isaiah chapter two, back to chapter one, we see the world as it really is.
We become weary.
And maybe closer to home, something that I know is a reality.
For so many of us, even during a season of joy and light and goodness, as we do celebrate and gather with families, yet for so many, we look around and we realize there's someone who's not at the table that we wish that there was.
Our hearts break just a little bit, and are not quite whole.
Because of these realities of the hurt and the pain and the longing of a broken world,
The Bible tells us all of this is the result of the fall of sin, of this chaos that still plagues us.
And it is us ourselves who bring it about.
It is we ourselves who make decisions and who take actions that are not always good for our neighbor, for those that we love.
It is we ourselves who speak words that we shouldn't speak and think thoughts that we shouldn't think.
It is we ourselves, it is us, it is the human condition in every one of us that as Isaiah here says in chapter one, my people Israel does not know, my people do not understand or follow after me.
The children, my people that I have reared and brought up, they rebel against me.
And so we know it is for us also.
Every one of us in our own ways, in our own times,
We also may find ourselves far from God.
Doing things that we wish we didn't do as Paul talks about, do the things I wish I did not do, the things that I wish I would do I don't do.
So we find ourselves far from God.
But the season is one of hope and it is one of light and it is one of light in the darkness and of God's word coming forth.
It's a season of hope and grace
and love all the things that we talk about as we light the candles on the advent wreath of faith and trusting in God's promises of trusting in a God who can work in a weary world who has spoken into the plight of his people who sees and knows and when he sees the difficulty of his people as they call out to him God's own heart breaks.
God's own heart breaks to the point that He sends His own Son from the heavenly realm.
He sends Jesus down into the world to live among His hurting people.
We give thanks for that this season.
That Christ is coming to dwell among us, that He is with us.
And that gives us hope in the here and now.
Isaiah's promise is for the future.
I'll close with that in just a minute.
We look forward to that last day.
that day when the nations go streaming towards the mountain of the Lord.
But I also don't want us to overlook the day in which we live right now.
We are not as people without hope because Christ has come to dwell among us.
You can even think about him as being around the table with us on Thanksgiving or the other holiday feasts.
He has come to be with us.
This is what it means that he came into the world.
He came to walk among his people and we see him in his ministry as he goes to the hurting, to the hungry, to the sick, to the dying and he reaches out to them and he lifts them up out of their sadness, out of their weakness, out of their sin and he gives them hope.
A hope for a life that is to come, a hope that is new life in his name, a hope for this world.
It's a hope that we so desperately need and that we long for and that we
We work hard to keep in our minds to see the hope of the season and the hope of his promises, and then that it would so fill us that it would come through us and flow out of us as we live our lives also.
This is our prayers, God's people.
Let us turn away from our old selves, from the old Adam, from the old sinful self, and let us live in the light of his promises, of his goodness, of his grace, his mercy.
So we go through this season.
That is my prayer for our church, for the Christian church as a whole, but also for our church here.
I think we are called to consider and pray for the world at large, for our church at large, but also, how can we embody this?
How can we as individuals, how can we as a local church be this good news for the world, be this hope for the world?
And I think it's by embracing both of these realities as we go through our lives, as we go through this season.
First reality.
as we are no strangers to the world is hurting and the world is weary and sometimes that's just me.
I'm weary.
I'm broken.
I'm sick.
I'm longing or I'm grieving and this is a reality and I hope as a church we can embrace that reality is important that we are there in order to receive those
real issues of this life in this world that we that we mourn with those who mourn that we comfort those who need comforting that we speak words of encouragement to those who need encouraging but at the same time as we hold on to that reality that we never shy away from the other side of this reality and truth that we hold on to a great promise that has great power to come and speak into these hurting places of this world and of our lives.
So that is where we need to get this picture.
Imagine, as Isaiah sees it this morning, he looks to the mountain, he looks to the highest of the mountains, and there is the Lord's temple, and something strange is happening.
Normally, in this world, he looked to the high mountains, and everything is falling down from them.
He looked to the high mountains, and the waters always stream down the mountains.
The rivers flow out of the mountains.
Sometimes rocks are falling down the mountains.
Sometimes the mountains are shrinking.
over time.
That's what happens in this world.
Everything that is built up is slowly falling away and falling apart and decaying.
Everything is just breaking down a bit.
That's not what's happening on the mountain of the Lord as Isaiah sees it.
The mountain of the Lord is rising, is growing, is becoming stronger.
And not only that, but the nations are flowing up into the mountain of the Lord.
The people are going up the mountain to meet with God.
God is gathering the people together.
He's raising them up.
out of decay, out of despair, out of grief, out of longing, out of sickness, out of all of the things that plague the people of this world, God is raising them up and bringing them up His mountain to be with Him, to unite them together in the holy place, in His temple, in His presence, in His peace, in His goodness, in His love, and in His forgiveness.
As we go through this season, I hope that we can do this well as a church.
And we can keep this in mind to embrace the difficult reality of sin and the darkness of this world, but to not ever for a minute lose sight of the light that is streaming in.
Of the promise of a God who is at the same time as we are dying, he is raising us up.
The same time as this world is decaying, he is making it new.
Same time as we are sinning.
He is there with his forgiveness.
So let us, as we worship Him this season, as we come into His house here, as we bring Him our praise, let us also know we are coming to the mountain of the Lord and daily and regularly through His Word and His promises.
He is raising us up to be His people.
He will carry us through this life, through death, and into the life that is to come.
That is His promise for us in Jesus' name.
Amen.
I invite the congregation to stand at this time.
May the peace of God which passes all understanding keep our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Amen.